Derivative classification is:
Answer: The process of using existing classified information to create new documents or material and marking the new material consistent with the classification markings that apply to the source information.

The document that provides basic guidance and regulatory requirements for derivative classification for DOD personnel is:
Answer: DODM 5200.01, DOD Information Security Program

All of the following are responsibilities of derivative classifiers EXCEPT:
Answer: Derivative classifiers must have original classification authority.

All of the following are steps in derivative classification EXCEPT:
Answer: Make recommendations for others to mark the new document

All of the following are steps in derivative classification EXCEPT:
Answer: Making the initial determination that information requires protection against unauthorized disclosure in the interest of national security.

If the authorized sources do not provide sufficient guidance, you should FIRST:
Answer: Ask your Security Manager or Facility Security Officer (FSO)

When derivatively classifying information, where can you find a listing of specific information elements that identify their classification, reason for classification, downgrading, and declassification information?
Answer: Security Classification Guide (SCG)

Information taken directly from an existing classified source and stated verbatim in a new or different document is an example of ______ .
Answer: Extracting

The security classification guide (SG) states: (C) Cpl Rice and Sgt Davis are attending the joint exercise. (U) The exercise begins 1 May. (C) The name of the exercise is Jagged Edge (S) The name of the attendees and the name of the exercise. The new document states: *(C) States Cpl Rice and Sgt Davis will both be attending the Jagged Edge exercise. *Note: The compilation of attendees and the name of the exercise within the same document is classified as SECRET per the SCG.What concept is used to derivatively classify the statement in the new document?
Answer: Classification by Compilation

evealed by\ includes which of the following?t of
Answer: A reader can deduce the classified information by performing additional interpretation or analysis.

The source document states: (S) The process takes three hours to complete. The new document states: (S) The process takes three hours to complete. Which concept was used to determine the derivative classification of the new document? 
Answer: Contained in

The source document states: (S) The exercise will begin on 4 May and end on 25 May (U) Elements of this unit will participate in the exercise (U) Unit members participating will be Barkley and James The Security Classification Guide (SCG) states: (U) Which unit will participate in the exercise (S) Exercise dates (U) Participating members of the unit The new document states: (S) Barkley and James cannot attend training during the exercise. They must attend before 4 May or after 25 May. Identify the concept used to determine the derivative classification of the new document.      
Answer: Revealed by

Your new material may aggregate, or bring together, pieces of information that are not individually classified, but when presented together they render your new material classified. This classification concept is called _______.      
Answer: Classification by Compilation

Select ALL of the correct responses.  Information is prohibited from being classified for what reasons:
Answer: To prevent embarrassment

In order to classify information, the information must concern at least one of the _____ categories specified in Executive Order 13526.
Answer: 8

All of the following are ways to promote the sharing of information within the Federal government, across state, local, and tribal governments, and with coalition partners, law enforcement, and the general public EXCEPT:
Answer: Automatically declassifying information that is shared

You may be subject to administrative, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or criminal sanctions if you engage in any of the following EXCEPT:
Answer: Submitting a formal challenge to information that may be improperly classified

Select ALL the correct responses. If you are a military personnel and you knowingly leaked classified information to an unauthorized user, what sanctions might be imposed on you?
Answer: Incarceration

Select ALL the correct responses. Which of the following are administrative sanctions?
Answer: Revocation of security eligibility

If you suspect information has been improperly or unnecessarily classified, what should you do first?
Answer: Initiate an informal challenge
